To get a more beautiful app, it would be a good start to have a white background and maybe not this reddish
text with the double yellow underline and we only get this here because I'm outputting the text widget
in the MaterialApp and that is enough to bring something onto the screen but it has no default stylings
for our mobile app.
It does not have any background or any appBar because for Flutter, you have to configure that all manually.
Keep in mind that Flutter controls the entire UI, all the pixels on the screen are controlled by your
Flutter app in the end, by the Flutter framework.
It does not take an existing mobile app and just mix in some widgets or some components,
it controls the entire app instead and therefore you also have to give clear instructions about
every detail,
what should be the background color, should there be an appBar?
And to do that, there is a little helper widget which you can use and I'll replace my text widget here
with it and that's scaffold. Now scaffold is yet another widget which is baked into material.dart.
It's made available there and scaffold has the job of creating a base page design for
your app, so it will give you a basic design and structure and color scheme or coloring for
giving you a UI that looks more like a regular mobile app page. Scaffold also has a couple of named arguments
and you can always hit control space to get some auto completion in the IDE and get a list of the
named arguments that are supported
and here you can also cycle through with the arrow keys to get some help and some explanation of
what each of these named arguments does and
there are tons of arguments and typically, you only use a few of them for each widget you are creating
and here for example we could add an appBar and then a body, body is basically the main content of the
page and appBar as the name suggests is the bar at the top.
So here, we can add appBar and now again appBar if we hover over that takes a preferred size widget.
Now what's a preferred size widget?
Well, it's a special kind of widget you could say, you could build it on your own but since the appBar
is such a typical and specific thing in any application, you can simply pass in a pre-built widget which
is also named appBar. appBar again is a widget provided by material.dart and as always, all widgets
are classes,
so here we are instantiating a class but this is a class which extends stateless or a stateful
widget in the end and appBar
then again take some configuration. So here if I hit control space while being within the parentheses with
my cursor,
I get some explanation on what I can pass here and you can pass a bunch here.
You can pass actions which would be buttons in your appBar, you can pass some of the bottom tabs if
you want to add some tabs in there.
You can change the background color but for now, I only want to set my title,
title is a named argument that allows me to set a title for this page
and here we could add my first app as a title.
However title does not take some text but if we have a look at it,
title actually takes a widget and can always hover over that to see what goes in there.
So it takes a widget, not some text but it takes the text widget and now
this could be confusing but the text widget is not some plain text but this is actually a widget which
takes some plain text, which takes a string
therefore as a positional first argument and then it outputs some text on the screen, the text we're passing
in here but text is a widget, not the plain text.
This here with the quotes,
that is plain text.
So now I'm passing in my text widget, which in turn takes that plain text as a widget for the title argument
in my appBar widget and we already see a bunch of widgets here and whilst this can be confusing initially,
this is how Flutter works, you compose your user interface by mixing multiple widgets together.
So here we have our overall app widget, which then uses a scaffold widget to get some basic page styling,
which then has an appBar widget for its appBar which then takes a text widget.
Now of course, we might not just want an appBar here but also a body, so we can add body here.
Now that's on the scaffold widget, so make sure you are adding this on the right level, outside of the
appBar and outside of the text widget arguments
but on the scaffold arguments, here we can add body and the body here
again could be our text, like this is my default text.
Now one recommendation I have here, always add a comma after closing parentheses because this will allow
you to autoformat this in a very readable way and
that's just a feature the Flutter extension for Visual Studio Code and also for Android Studio offers.
You can format your document with a certain key binding and you can find that if you go to keyboard
shortcuts
and there, you search for format document in Visual Studio Code,
then you should find a key binding which you can also change if you're not happy with the default and with
that key binding if you press that, you auto format your code to be a bit more readable
and with these trailing commas at the end of every line, Flutter is able to format this nicer. If I would
remove this comma after my body argument here,
you'll see now it formats this a bit more unstructured and for short snippets like this, this is
fine but the longer your widget trees get, the easier and nicer it is to read this with these trailing
commas which improve the auto formatting but that's just a tiny hint for writing clean code.
So with that, we finished our scaffold widget which we didn't create ourselves but which is provided
by Flutter and
we passed an appBar and a body.
And now if we save this, it should automatically rebuild and hot reload your application. Hot reload means
that it didn't need to restart the app, which means it keeps the current state, if we change any
data in there, it wouldn't restart and override that,
instead it keeps the app as it was and just injects our new code into it, which is some magic managed
by Flutter during development and therefore if we go back, now this looks way better. Instead of that
ugly hello which was red with a black default, with a black background,
we now have our nicer page look here with an appBar, with a little drop shadow, with a blue background,
with our title that automatically has a color that contrasts against the background
and then here we have
this is my default text which we output in the body,
so in the main area of this page. And this is how we build Flutter apps, how we work with these widget
trees and how we can also structure our app here in code and that is what I meant when I mentioned in
the first section that with Flutter and Dart, we build mobile apps by building the user interface in
code. We're not using a drag and drop editor here,
instead we're writing some code which defines what should end up on the screen.
And now we have these basic set,
let's take the next step towards our first, a little bit more realistic course application.